Referent
A security referent is the focus of a security policy or discourse; for example, a referent may 
be a potential beneficiary (or victim) of a security policy or system.

Security referents may be persons or social groups, objects, institutions, ecosystems, or any other 
phenomenon vulnerable to unwanted change by the forces of its environment.[2] The referent in question 
may combine many referents, in the same way that, for example, a nation state is composed of many individual
citizens.[3]

Context
The security context is the relationships between a security referent and its environment.[2] 
From this perspective, security and insecurity depend first on whether the environment is 
beneficial or hostile to the referent, and also how capable is the referent of responding to
its/their environment in order to survive and thrive.[3]

Capabilities
The means by which a referent provides for security (or is provided for) vary widely. 
They include, for example:

Coercive capabilities, including the capacity to project coercive power into the environment 
(e.g. aircraft carrier, handgun, firearms);
Protective systems (e.g. lock, fence, wall, antivirus software, air defence system, armour)
Warning systems (e.g. alarm, radar)
Diplomatic and social action intended to prevent insecurity from developing (e.g. conflict 
prevention and transformation strategies); and
Policy intended to develop the lasting economic, physical, ecological and other conditions of security
(e.g. economic reform, ecological protection, progressive demilitarization, militarization).
Effects
Any action intended to provide security may have multiple effects. For example, an action may have 
wide benefit, enhancing security for several or all security referents in the context; alternatively, the 
action may be effective only temporarily, or benefit one referent at the expense of another, or be entirely ineffective
or counterproductive.

Contested approaches
Approaches to security are contested and the subject of debate. For example, in debate about national security
strategies, some argue that security depends principally on developing protective and coercive capabilities in
order to protect the security referent in a hostile environment (and potentially to project that power into its
environment, and dominate it to the point of strategic supremacy).[4][5][6] Others argue that security depends
principally on building the conditions in which equitable relationships can develop, partly by reducing antagonism 
between actors, ensuring that fundamental needs can be met, and also that differences of interest can be negotiated 
effectively.[7][3][8]